.TH ORCAS-TUI 1 "2026-03-17" "Orcas 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
orcas-tui \- terminal UI for Orcas supervision
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B orcas-tui
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B orcas-tui
binary is the interactive terminal interface for Orcas. It connects to the
local Orcas daemon over the Unix socket, renders the current supervision
state, and issues control actions through the daemon rather than talking to
Codex directly.

In the current implementation, the TUI bootstraps from both the daemon's
\fBstate/get\fR snapshot and the authority hierarchy queries. It also has one
intentional local exception: it can launch a PTY-backed \fBcodex resume\fR
session for interactive attachment to a selected thread. That local PTY session
is not daemon-owned workflow state.

Recovery is snapshot-first rather than replay-based. If the daemon connection
drops or the daemon restarts, the old event subscription closes with that
socket lifetime. The TUI reconnects, reloads \fBstate/get\fR, refreshes the
authority hierarchy and focused detail as needed, and establishes a fresh event
subscription for new notifications. Local
PTY-backed \fBcodex resume\fR sessions are not reconstructed by daemon
reconnect.

An already-running local PTY-backed \fBcodex resume\fR session remains owned by
the TUI process rather than the daemon. It can continue independently while the
daemon reconnects, but it is not daemon-persisted planning or workflow state.

The TUI is intended for local use on a Linux workstation or terminal session.
It shares the same configuration, runtime state, and log locations as the rest
of the Orcas suite.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/orcas/config.toml
User configuration file.

.TP
.I ~/.local/share/orcas/state.json
Legacy collaboration and thread or turn mirror state.

.TP
.I ~/.local/share/orcas/state.db
Authority workstream, authority work unit, and tracked-thread state.

.TP
.I ~/.local/share/orcas/logs/orcas-tui.log
TUI log file.

.TP
.I ${XDG_RUNTIME_DIR}/orcas/orcasd.sock
Local IPC socket used to reach the daemon.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B RUST_LOG
Controls tracing verbosity for the TUI.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR orcas (1),
.BR orcasd (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Orcas contributors.
.SH LICENSE
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0.
