.TH ORCAS 1 "2026-03-17" "Orcas 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
orcas \- operator CLI for local Orcas workflows
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B orcas
[\fICOMMAND\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B orcas
command is the operator-facing CLI for the Orcas control plane. It connects to
the local Orcas daemon over the Unix socket, inspects runtime state, and
issues operator actions such as daemon lifecycle commands and workflow
queries.

Orcas does not talk to Codex directly. The daemon owns authoritative state,
IPC, snapshots, and event delivery, while
.B orcas
acts as a client of that daemon.

The current packaged
.I orcas-daemon.service
unit is intended for the user service manager, so the CLI and daemon all
share the same user-scoped config, data, log, and socket paths.

The current workflow boundary is mixed. Legacy collaboration state remains in
\fIstate.json\fR, while authority workstreams, authority work units, and tracked
threads live in \fIstate.db\fR. The
.B orcas
CLI now uses authority-backed planning hierarchy CRUD as the canonical operator
surface via
.B workstreams ,
.B workunits ,
and
.B tracked-threads .
There is no longer an operator-facing legacy planning command namespace.
Any remaining collaboration planning compatibility is internal to the daemon or
used for runtime detail; it is not a supported CLI expansion surface.
.SH QUICK START
Check the local Orcas environment:

.P
.B orcas doctor

.P
Query daemon status:

.P
.B orcas daemon status

.SH EXAMPLES
Start or inspect the daemon:

.P
.B orcas daemon start

.P
.B orcas daemon status

Set debug logging for a single session:

.P
.B RUST_LOG=debug orcas doctor
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --codex-bin \fIPATH\fR
Override the local Codex binary path for this command.

.TP
.B --listen-url \fIURL\fR
Override the upstream Codex app-server WebSocket URL.

.TP
.B --cwd \fIPATH\fR
Override the default working directory for daemon-launched work during this command.

.TP
.B --model \fINAME\fR
Override the default model for daemon-launched work during this command.

.TP
.B --connect-only
Require connect-only mode instead of spawning a local Codex app-server for this command.

.TP
.B --force-spawn
Require spawn mode instead of connect-only mode for this command. This option conflicts with
.BR --connect-only .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.orcas/config.toml
User configuration file.

.TP
.I ~/.orcas/state.json
Legacy collaboration and thread or turn mirror state.

.TP
.I ~/.orcas/state.db
Authority workstream, authority work unit, and tracked-thread state.

.TP
.I ~/.orcas/logs/orcas.log
Operator CLI log file.

.TP
.I ${ORCAS_HOME}/runtime/orcasd.sock or ~/.orcas/runtime/orcasd.sock
Local IPC socket used to reach the daemon.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B RUST_LOG
Controls tracing verbosity for Orcas binaries.

.TP
.B ORCAS_CODEX_BIN
Overrides the path to the local Codex binary.

.TP
.B ORCAS_CODEX_LISTEN_URL
Overrides the upstream Codex listen URL.

.TP
.B ORCAS_DEFAULT_CWD
Overrides the default working directory used for daemon-launched work.

.TP
.B ORCAS_DEFAULT_MODEL
Overrides the default model used for daemon-launched work.

.TP
.B ORCAS_CONNECTION_MODE
Accepts
.B connect_only
or
.B spawn_always .
If unset, Orcas keeps the configured or default
.B spawn_if_needed
behavior.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR orcasd (1)

Project documentation is installed under:

.I /usr/share/doc/orcas/
.SH AUTHOR
Orcas contributors.
.SH LICENSE
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0.
