.TH ORCASD 1 "2026-03-17" "Orcas 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
orcasd \- Orcas daemon for local Codex supervision
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B orcasd
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B orcasd
binary is the long-lived Orcas daemon. It owns the local control plane,
maintains workflow state, serves the Unix domain socket used by clients, and
coordinates the upstream Codex worker connection.

The daemon is normally managed by
.BR systemd (1)
through
.I orcas-daemon.service
and is designed to run under the user service manager so it shares the same
XDG paths and local socket contract as the CLI and TUI rather than acting as a
public network daemon.

Orcas records workstreams, work units, assignments, reports, decisions,
proposals, thread state, and turn state in Orcas-native storage. The CLI and
TUI connect to the daemon for inspection and control.

The current daemon owns two live persistence systems: legacy collaboration and
thread or turn mirror state in \fIstate.json\fR, and authority state in
\fIstate.db\fR for authority workstreams, authority work units, and tracked
threads.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --codex-bin \fIPATH\fR
Override the local Codex binary path for this daemon process.

.TP
.B --listen-url \fIURL\fR
Override the upstream Codex app-server WebSocket URL.

.TP
.B --cwd \fIPATH\fR
Override the default working directory for spawned work.

.TP
.B --model \fINAME\fR
Override the default model for spawned work.

.TP
.B --connect-only
Require connect-only mode instead of spawning a local Codex app-server.

.TP
.B --force-spawn
Require spawn mode instead of connect-only mode. This option conflicts with
.BR --connect-only .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/orcas/config.toml
User configuration file.

.TP
.I ~/.local/share/orcas/state.json
Legacy collaboration and thread or turn mirror state.

.TP
.I ~/.local/share/orcas/state.db
Authority workstream, authority work unit, and tracked-thread state.

.TP
.I ~/.local/share/orcas/logs/orcasd.log
Daemon log file.

.TP
.I ${XDG_RUNTIME_DIR}/orcas/orcasd.sock
Local IPC socket used by supervisor clients.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B RUST_LOG
Controls tracing verbosity for the daemon.

.TP
.B ORCAS_CODEX_BIN
Overrides the path to the local Codex binary.

.TP
.B ORCAS_CODEX_LISTEN_URL
Overrides the upstream Codex listen URL.

.TP
.B ORCAS_DEFAULT_CWD
Overrides the default working directory used for spawned work.

.TP
.B ORCAS_DEFAULT_MODEL
Overrides the default model used for spawned work.

.TP
.B ORCAS_CONNECTION_MODE
Accepts
.B connect_only
or
.B spawn_always .
If unset, Orcas keeps the configured or default
.B spawn_if_needed
behavior.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR orcas (1),
.BR orcas-tui (1),
.BR systemd (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Orcas contributors.
.SH LICENSE
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0.
