.TH TT-DAEMON 1 "2026-04-08" "TT 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tt-daemon \- TT daemon for local TT orchestration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tt-daemon
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B tt-daemon
binary is the long-lived TT daemon. It owns the local control plane,
maintains managed-project overlay state, serves the Unix domain socket used by
clients, and coordinates Codex-backed worker activation.

The daemon is normally managed by
.BR systemd (1)
through
.I tt-daemon.service
and is designed to run under the user service manager so it shares the same
TT home, socket, and workspace conventions as the CLI rather than acting as a
public network daemon.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --cwd \fIPATH\fR
Override the default working directory used for daemon-scoped operations.

.TP
.B --listen-url \fIURL\fR
Override the upstream TT app-server WebSocket URL.

.TP
.B --connect-only
Require connect-only mode instead of spawning a local TT app-server.

.TP
.B --force-spawn
Require spawn mode instead of connect-only mode. This option conflicts with
.BR --connect-only .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.tt/config.toml
User configuration file.

.TP
.I ~/.tt/overlay.db
TT overlay state database.

.TP
.I ~/.tt/logs/tt-daemon.log
Daemon log file.

.TP
.I ${TT_HOME}/tt-daemon.sock or ~/.tt/tt-daemon.sock
Local IPC socket used by CLI and TUI clients.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B RUST_LOG
Controls tracing verbosity for the daemon.

.TP
.B TT_RUNTIME_BIN
Overrides the path to the local TT CLI binary.

.TP
.B TT_RUNTIME_LISTEN_URL
Overrides the upstream TT listen URL.

.TP
.B TT_DEFAULT_CWD
Overrides the default working directory used for daemon-launched work.

.TP
.B TT_DEFAULT_MODEL
Overrides the default model used for daemon-launched work.

.TP
.B TT_CONNECTION_MODE
Accepts
.B connect_only
or
.B spawn_always .
If unset, TT keeps the configured or default
.B spawn_if_needed
behavior.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tt-cli (1),
.BR systemd (1)
.SH AUTHOR
TT contributors.
.SH LICENSE
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0.
