.TH TTD 1 "2026-03-17" "TT 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ttd \- TT daemon for local TT supervision
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ttd
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ttd
binary is the long-lived TT daemon. It owns the local control plane,
maintains workflow state, serves the Unix domain socket used by clients, and
coordinates the upstream TT worker connection.

The daemon is normally managed by
.BR systemd (1)
through
.I tt-daemon.service
and is designed to run under the user service manager so it shares the same
XDG paths and local socket contract as the CLI rather than acting as a public
network daemon.

TT records workstreams, work units, assignments, reports, decisions,
proposals, thread state, and turn state in TT-native storage. The CLI
connects to the daemon for inspection and control.

The current daemon owns two live persistence systems: legacy collaboration and
thread or turn mirror state in \fIstate.json\fR, and authority state in
\fIstate.db\fR for authority workstreams, authority work units, and tracked
threads.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --tt-bin \fIPATH\fR
Override the local TT binary path for this daemon process.

.TP
.B --listen-url \fIURL\fR
Override the upstream TT app-server WebSocket URL.

.TP
.B --cwd \fIPATH\fR
Override the default working directory for spawned work.

.TP
.B --model \fINAME\fR
Override the default model for spawned work.

.TP
.B --connect-only
Require connect-only mode instead of spawning a local TT app-server.

.TP
.B --force-spawn
Require spawn mode instead of connect-only mode. This option conflicts with
.BR --connect-only .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.tt/config.toml
User configuration file.

.TP
.I ~/.tt/state.json
Legacy collaboration and thread or turn mirror state.

.TP
.I ~/.tt/state.db
Authority workstream, authority work unit, and tracked-thread state.

.TP
.I ~/.tt/logs/ttd.log
Daemon log file.

.TP
.I ${TT_HOME}/runtime/ttd.sock or ~/.tt/runtime/ttd.sock
Local IPC socket used by supervisor clients.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B RUST_LOG
Controls tracing verbosity for the daemon.

.TP
.B TT_RUNTIME_BIN
Overrides the path to the local TT binary.

.TP
.B TT_RUNTIME_LISTEN_URL
Overrides the upstream TT listen URL.

.TP
.B TT_DEFAULT_CWD
Overrides the default working directory used for spawned work.

.TP
.B TT_DEFAULT_MODEL
Overrides the default model used for spawned work.

.TP
.B TT_CONNECTION_MODE
Accepts
.B connect_only
or
.B spawn_always .
If unset, TT keeps the configured or default
.B spawn_if_needed
behavior.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tt (1),
.BR systemd (1)
.SH AUTHOR
TT contributors.
.SH LICENSE
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0.
